# What-is-my-FunctionalThresholdPower
A cycling website I use, https://www.strava.com/dashboard, has both a social aspect to it (free) and a performance aspect (subscription required). I currently have a subscription, but Strava does not have all the analysis tools and statistics I want, so I decided to compute those quantities myself. (There are other websites and applications that can do more sophisticated analyses, but they often are not free, do have as a nice of an interface, and do not have a social aspect.) By doing this I can get exactly what I want on the performance side of things, while still having the social aspect, but now it could be free.

Threshold Power is the power output at which lactic acid starts to build up in a person's body, and thus is an important quantity to know for an endurance athlete. It can be determined through blood testing in a lab. However this can be expensive. An alternative is to do a field test, i.e. go for a bike ride, for Functional Threshold Power (FTP). An FTP test involves doing an eight minute or twenty minute all-out, but steady effort. The athlete's FTP is then given by dividing the average power during this time by 1.10 or 1.05, respectively. That is the twenty minute test tends to overestimate a rider's FTP by five percent, and similarly for the eight minute test.

I recently conducted an FTP test. However, for lack of a better option, the course I chose had a small hill on it. This made it difficult to output a constant power, which is what the test requires. The FTP test is based off of the average power recorded during the test. In cycling, as is the case with so many other things, the average of a quantity does not usually tell the full story. Normalized power, https://www.trainingpeaks.com/blog/what-is-normalized-power/, attempts to take variations in intensity into account. If my normalized power was drastically different from my average power during the test(s), it might indicate that I did not make a good choice for the course. Here is my dilemma, Strava only gives the Normalized Power (they call it Weighted Avg Power) for the whole ride, and won't compute it for part of a ride, which is what I need.
